Add pricing documentation. (#466)
wso2/docs-choreo-dev: en/docs/references/pricing.md

# Pricing

## Introduction

> Choreo is a Digital Platform as a Service that helps you develop integration solutions faster by reducing the coding effort with a low-code development platform. You can use Choreo by paying only for your usage: nothing more, nothing less. Choreo has payment plans for all types of users. You can enjoy the free tier with limitations and then move on to the Pay-As-You-Go model if you use more than 5,000 [steps](#what-is-a-step) per month. If you plan to use Choreo significantly, you can also opt for an Enterprise plan and enjoy special discount rates.

Reviewer: Is "extensively" a better word to use in this context instead of "significantly"?

Author: This word was suggested at the review round we had with the leadership.

Author: Used extensively

## Plans

|               | Free                   |  Pay As You Go    | Enterprise     |
|---------------|------------------------|-------------------|----------------|

> | Cost Per Step | 5,000 steps per month *|$5 per 1,000 steps <br/> <ul><li>First 5,000 steps per month are free</li></ul>| Contact Us For Discounted Pricing <br/><ul><li> Volume Discounts</li><li> Committed-use Discounts</li><li> Support Channels and Support SLA</li></ul>|

Reviewer: Why do we use title caps in the **Enterprise** column? Let's use a colon before a list.

Suggestion:
"Contact us for discounted pricing offers including:
 - Volume discounts
 - Committed-use discounts
 - Support channels and support SLA"

Author: done

>  \* Limited to a maximum of 3 components

Reviewer: What is limited to a maximum of three components?

If the number is less than 10, we should use the word (in this case "three") instead of the integer.

Author: Actually according to https://developers.google.com/style/numbers#more-examples, if it's a unit, then recommended way is to use the number.

Reviewer: This guide you have linked states the following:

"Numbers as words
In general, spell out the following:

Numbers from zero through nine, except as noted in [Numbers as numerals](https://developers.google.com/style/numbers#numbers-as-numerals)."

Author: If you look at the more recommendations you'll see similar usage. It doesn't make it readable by saying three components.

Reviewer: In this case, this is neither a number without a unit and nor is it used in a mathematical expression. Therefore, it seems more appropriate to use the first guideline. The list of examples is also more in line with that.

Author: As discussed offline, since it is consistent across the doc, and as the guideline is a bit blurred. let's leave this as it is.

## Choreo pricing FAQ

### How does Choreo pricing work?

Choreo pricing is based on the number of [steps](#what-is-a-step) in your integration solution. Choreo offers three payment plans: Free, Pay As You Go, and Enterprise.

#### Free 

> The Choreo free tier allows you to execute 5,000 [steps](#what-is-a-step) per month, limited to a maximum of 3 components. If you exceed the free tier, your application cannot make any additional requests to Choreo. 

Reviewer: ``` suggestion
The Choreo free tier allows you to execute 5,000 [steps](#what-is-a-step) per month for a maximum of 3 components. If you exceed the free tier, your application cannot make any additional requests to Choreo.
```

Author: Same as above

Reviewer: The Google Developer Guide which you have linked states the following:

"Numbers as words
In general, spell out the following:

Numbers from zero through nine, except as noted in Numbers as numerals."

Author: same as above

## Plans

|               | Free                   |  Pay As You Go    | Enterprise     |
|---------------|------------------------|-------------------|----------------|
| Cost Per Step | 5,000 steps per month *|$5 per 1,000 steps <br/> <ul><li>First 5,000 steps per month are free</li></ul>| Contact us for discounted pricing including: <br/><ul><li> Volume Discounts</li><li> Committed-use Discounts</li><li> Support Channels and Support SLA</li></ul>|

 \* Limited to a maximum of 3 components

## Choreo pricing FAQ

### How does Choreo pricing work?

Choreo pricing is based on the number of [steps](#what-is-a-step) in your integration solution. Choreo offers three payment plans: Free, Pay As You Go, and Enterprise.

#### Free 
The Choreo free tier allows you to execute 5,000 [steps](#what-is-a-step) per month, limited to a maximum of 3 components. If you exceed the free tier, your application cannot make any additional requests to Choreo. 

#### Pay As You Go (PAYG) 

> Pay As You Go is a flexible usage-based payment plan. While the first 5,000 steps are free per month, Choreo will charge you $0.005 for each additional step, for example, $5 for 1,000 steps based on your usage per month. 

Reviewer: Shall we move the example to keep the sentence shorter?

```suggestion
Pay As You Go is a flexible usage-based payment plan. While the first 5,000 steps are free per month, Choreo charges $0.005 for each additional step based on your usage per month. For example, if your usage is 6,000 steps, the cost is $5.
```

Author: Changes a bit.

> Let’s say you have used a total of 12,500 [steps](#what-is-a-step) for a particular month, your monthly usage for that month under the PAYG plan will be:

Reviewer: Let's use "assume" instead of "Let's say"?

Author: done

    Chargeable steps usage: 12,500 - 5,000 = 7,500
    The total charge for the usage: 7,500 * $0.005 ($5 for every 1,000 steps) = $37.50

#### Enterprise 

> The Enterprise plan is suitable for large-scale usage of Choreo. You can access volume discounts and committed-use discounts with this plan. [Contact sales](https://wso2.com/contact/?ref=choreo) to get a discounted rate.

Reviewer: Suggestion for the last sentence:

```suggestion
The Enterprise plan is suitable for large-scale usage of Choreo. You can access volume discounts and committed-use discounts with this plan. To get a discounted rate, [contact sales](https://wso2.com/contact/?ref=choreo).

Author: I want to make Contact Sales, the action term more prominent. Hence used it as the first sentence.

Reviewer: The word is anyway highlighted because the link text is in another colour, and a link at the end of a paragraph can be accessed faster to click.

Author: Isn't the usability in this case subjective?

Author: Let's leave it the way it is for now, and changed it based on feedback.

### What is a step?

> A step (1 step) is a maximum of 500ms compute time on a container having 350MB of memory and 0.5 vCPU. Any additional compute time is counted as an additional step.  

Reviewer: Is the (1 step) within brackets necessary?

Author: yes.

> An incoming event or message to Choreo or an outgoing API call from Choreo is a minimum of 1 step.

Reviewer: Change "1 step" to "one step".

Author: It's a measurement unit. Hence using the numeral is fine.

## Pricing examples

### Example 1: REST API 

An organization has a flight booking system on Choreo. This system involves several APIs and databases. The scenario and the APIs being used in the system are described below.

#### Scenario

> To make a booking through the web application, a client will first search for available flights and then proceed to make the booking. The client application (web application) upon receiving the request will make a call to the [Search API](#searchAPI) to search for available flights. When the client receives the search results the client will proceed to make a reservation using the [Reservations API](#reservationsAPI).

Reviewer: In this context, present tense is more appropriate?

```suggestion
To make a booking through the web application, a client first searches for available flights and then proceeds to make the booking. The client application (i.e., the web application) upon receiving the request makes a call to the [Search API](#searchAPI) to search for available flights. When the client receives the search results, the client proceeds to make a reservation using the [Reservations API](#reservationsAPI).
```

Author: done

The following two diagrams illustrate the interactions in the system while searching and reserving a flight.
<br/>

#### Glossary

> - <a class="pricing" id="searchAPI"> Search API</a>: An external-facing API in Choreo that searches for the availability of flights and seats given the destinations.

Reviewer: Shall we have the word being described in bold? Applies to all the items in the Glossary.

Author: This is styled differently as having it in bold kind of looks like too many items in bold with the headings.

> - <a class="pricing" id="searchAPI"> Search API</a>: An external-facing API in Choreo that searches for the availability of flights and seats given the destinations.

Reviewer: Suggestion

"An external-facing API in Choreo that searches for the availability of flights and seats for the given the destinations."

Author: when you say for the given destinations, usually isn't a list of destination expected to follow?

Reviewer: In that case, how about "specified destinations"?

"given the destinations" is rather unclear.

Author: +1 . done

- <a class="pricing" id="bookingsAPI">Bookings API</a>: An internal API in Choreo that updates the Bookings database when a booking for a certain flight is made.
- <a class="pricing" id="reservationsAPI">Reservations API</a>: An external-facing API in Choreo that is used by client applications (web apps, mobile apps) to make flight bookings.
- <a class="pricing" id="twillioAPI">Twilio API</a>: A third-party API that is used by the Reservations API in Choreo to send SMS notifications to customers when a booking has been made, canceled, or updated.

> - <a class="pricing" id="executionTime">Execution time</a>: The execution time taken for a process is the time taken between a request sent to response received.

Reviewer: Suggestion
"The execution time taken for a process is the time interval between sending the request and receiving the response."

Author: done

> - <a class="pricing" id="executionTime">Execution time</a>: The execution time taken for a process is the time taken between  sending a request and recieving a response.

Reviewer: There is an extra space after "between" and "received" is misspelt.

Author: done

<br/>
<br/>

#### Searching for a flight

![Search for a flight](../assets/img/references/rest-api-example1.png)

Let’s see how steps are calculated for the search process: 

- As illustrated above, the client initiates a search for available flights through the web application. 

> - The web application then makes **1 API call to the [Search API](#searchAPI)** in Choreo. This is counted as **1 step**.

Reviewer: Change "1" to "one".

Author: As discussed offline, let's leave it as it is for the moment.

- The search API in Choreo then makes **1 call to the Flights Database** to retrieve the information according to the search criteria entered by the client. This is counted as **1 step**. 

- **Assuming the entire [execution time](#executionTime) for the search process takes less than 500ms** (starting from making a call to Choreo, and Choreo making a call to the database), the search process thereby results in a **total of 2 steps**.

<br/>

#### Reserving a flight

![Reserving a flight](../assets/img/references/rest-api-example2.png)

Let’s see how steps are calculated for the reservation process:

> - As illustrated above, the client initiates the reservation process through the Web Application.

Reviewer: Are we using a specific web application here? "web application" mentioned in simple case easrlier in this page.

Author: This is referring to the Web Application in the diagram.

- **Assuming the entire execution time for the reservation process takes 1200ms (1.2s)** , in addition to the above steps,  the total number of extra computation units consumed can be calculated as follows using ***floor((t)/500)) where t is the execution time***: 

          floor(1200/500) = 2 units = 2 steps

Therefore the total number of steps for the reservation process is: 

           4 steps + 2 steps = 6 steps

We can calculate the **total number of steps for searching and reserving a flight** as follows:

- **Search process**: Single execution of a search would cost a total of **2 steps**. 
- **Reservation process**: Single execution of reservation process would cost a total of **6 steps**. 
- **Total**: A single execution of the search and reservation process of a flight would cost an organization a total of **8 steps in total**.

!!! note
    The above cost calculation is dependent on the above architecture and design of the APIs.
<br/>

### Example 2: REST API Proxy
An organization exposes a flight tracking API as a managed API on Choreo. This system involves several APIs and databases. The scenario and the APIs in the system are described below:

#### Scenario

> To search for real-time flight data, a client will enter search criteria, and search through the web application. Upon receiving the request, the client application (web application) will make a call to the [Flights Status API](#flightStatusAPI), a managed API on Choreo, to search for flight data. Choreo will then invoke the backend API, the [Real-Time Flight API](#realtimeFlightAPI). The backend API will invoke a database to get the information and pass it to the client.

Reviewer: Present tense would be more appropriate here.

Author: done

#### Glossary

- <a class="pricing" id="flighStatusAPI">Flight Status API</a>: An external-facing, managed API on Choreo. This API exposes the Real-Time Flight API on Choreo as a managed API.

- <a class="pricing" id="realtimeFlightAPI">Real-TIme Flight API</a>: An unmanaged, external-facing API hosted outside of Choreo.

- <a class="pricing" id="flightsDatabase">Flights Database</a>: A database that stores flight information.

#### Get flight status

![Get flight status](../assets/img/references/api-proxy-example1.png)

> Let’s see how the steps are calculated for the get flight status process:

Author: done

> - As illustrated above, the client initiates a search request for flight data through the web application. 

Reviewer: Let's be consistent in the use of capitalization in "web application".

Author: kept all instances as "web application".

- The web application then makes **1 API call to the [Flight Status API](#flightStatusAPI)** in Choreo. This is counted as **1 step**.
- The Flight Status API in Choreo then makes **1 call to the [Real-Time Flight API](#realtimeFlightAPI)** with the search criteria entered by the client. This is counted as **1 step**. 
- The Real-Time Flight API then invokes the database to retrieve the information.

> - **Assuming the entire execution time for the get flight status process takes less than 500ms** (starting from making a call to Choreo, and Choreo making a call to the backend API),the get flight status process thereby results in a **total of 2 steps**.

Reviewer: "starting from making a call to Choreo, and Choreo making a call to the backend API"

Since we mention what makes the call to the  backend API, it is better to mention what makes the call to Choreo as well.

Author: done

<br/>
### Example 3: Webhook
An airport has its flight information display system (FIDS) in Choreo.  This system involves APIs and webhooks.

#### Scenario

> This scenario describes a hypothetical maintenance process carried out by airline maintenance. The airline uses Choreo to generate alerts by using Webhooks when the aircraft maintenance status is updated. 

Reviewer: Be consistent in the use os capitalization for the word "webhooks". We generally have it in simple case except when we use it as a modifier (e.g., Webhooks component).

Author: removed this instance.

> The Aircraft Maintenance team carries out maintenance for each flight before take-off. A supervisor updates the maintenance status of the aircraft on a [Aircraft Maintenance Sheet](#AircraftMaintenanceSheet), which is a Google sheet. Upon updating the sheet, the [Aircraft Status Notifier](#aircraftNotifWebhook) webhook on Choreo gets triggered and updates the [Flight Scheduling Database](#flightSchedulingDatabase) that confirms if the aircraft is ready for take off,  if it will be delayed due to maintenance, or if it is not suitable for take off.

Reviewer: In the last part of the sentence, "whether" is more appropriate than "if".

"...that confirms whether the aircraft is ready to take off, whether it will be delayed due to maintenance, or whether it is not suitable for take off."

Author: +1. Changed

#### Glossary

- <a class="pricing" id="aircraftNotifWebhook">Aircraft Status Notifier</a>:A webhook in Choreo that listens to any events that trigger when the Aircraft maintenance sheet is updated.

> - <a class="pricing" id="AircraftMaintenanceSheet">Aircraft Maintenance Sheet</a>: A Google sheet that maintains the list of aircraft, their information,  the maintenance schedule, and the maintenance status.

Reviewer: "list of aircrafts"?

A double space is used before "the maintenance schedule".

Author: the plural of aircraft is aircraft.

<br/>

#### Update maintenance status 

![Update maintenance status](../assets/img/references/webhook-example1.png)

Let’s see how the steps are calculated for the update maintenance process:

- As illustrated above, the webhook registers with the Google sheet at the time the Webhook component is created on Choreo.
- The supervisor initiates the update process by updating or adding the relevant information on the [Aircraft Maintenance Sheet](#AircraftMaintenanceSheet).
- The Google Sheet triggers **1 event to the Webhook Listener,[Aircraft Status Notifier](#aircraftNotifWebhook)** on Choreo. This is counted as **1 step**.
- The Webhook Listener,[Aircraft Status Notifier](#aircraftNotifWebhook) on Choreo then makes **1 database call to the [Flight Scheduling Database](#flightSchedulingDatabase)** to update the flight maintenance status. This is counted as 1 step. 

- **Assuming the entire execution time for the update process takes less than 500ms**, the update process thereby results in a **total of 2 steps**.

!!! note
    The above cost calculation is dependent on the above architecture and design of the Webhooks.
<br/>

### Example 4: Scheduled Job 

> An airline will revise its ticket prices based on the price of jet fuel. This typically happens once a day. The airline uses a scheduled task on Choreo to run this job and to update the jet fuel price once a day.

Author: Fixed.

#### Scenario 
 
Airlines compute ticket prices typically once per day. The ticket prices depend on a number of factors. The price of oil is one such major factor that affects the pricing.  

The [scheduler](#scheduler) on Choreo runs once per day and fetches the oil prices for the day from the [Oil Price API](#oilPriceAPI). It then computes the jet fuel price applying the price calculation formula. The scheduler then updates the daily jet fuel price in the [Air Fare Database](#airFareDatabase).

> Having the jet fuel price, the scheduler is able to now calculate the airfare for each route. The Scheduler retrieves the airline routes from the [Airline Routes API](#airlineRoutesAPI). Upon receiving the airline routes, it iterates over each route, computes the airfare, and updates the AirFare database.

Reviewer: Shall we change "is able to now" to "is now able to".

Author: done

#### Glossary 

- <a class="pricing" id="scheduler">Scheduler</a>: A scheduled task created on Choreo that runs every day.
- <a class="pricing" id="oilPriceAPI">Oil Price API</a>: An external-facing API that returns the crude oil price for the day.
- <a class="pricing" id="airFareDatabase">Air Fare Database</a>: The database that stores the jet fuel price which is used to compute the airfare for each route.

> - <a class="pricing" id="airlineRoutesAPI">Airline Routes API</a>: An external-facing API that  provides details about the airline routes and a list of airline routes.

Reviewer: There is a double space in this sentence.

Author: done

- <a class="pricing" id="airlineRoutesDatabase">Airline Routes Database</a>: The database that stores the airline routes information.

<br/>

#### Update jet fuel price daily

![ Update jet fuel prices daily](../assets/img/references/scheduled-task-example1.png)

Let’s see how we can calculate the steps for the update maintenance process:

- The scheduled task ([scheduler](#scheduler)) on Choreo runs once per day.
- The scheduler makes **1 API call to the [Oil Price API](#oilPriceAPI)** to  retrieve the daily oil price.  This is counted as **1 step**. 

> - Upon receiving the daily oil price, the Scheduler then applies the formula to calculate the jet fuel price and calculates daily jet fuel price.

Reviewer: Have a "the" before "daily jet fuel price".

Author: done

- The Scheduler on Choreo then makes **1 database call to the [Air Fare Database](#airFareDatabase)** to update the daily jet fuel price. This is counted as **1 step**. 

- **Assuming the entire execution time for the update process takes 1200 ms**, the total number of steps can be calculated as follows:
  
        Number of API calls/database calls/events = 2 steps
        Number of computation units = round((1200-500)/500) = 2 units = 2 steps
        Total number of steps = 2 steps + 2 steps = 4 steps

<br/>

#### Update airfare daily  

![ Update airfare daily](../assets/img/references/scheduled-task-example2.png)

Let’s see how we can calculate the steps for the update process: 

- The scheduled task ([scheduler](#scheduler))on Choreo runs once per day.
- The Scheduler makes **1 API call to the [Airline Routes API](#airlineRoutesAPI)** to  retrieve the airline routes.  This is counted as **1 step**. 
For ease of explanation, let’s *assume the above API call returns 5 airline routes*. 
- Upon receiving the airline routes, the Scheduler then loops through the 5 airline routes and computes the airfare.  

> - The Scheduler on Choreo then makes **1 database call to the [Air Fare Database](#airFareDatabase)** to update the airfare for the airline routes. This is counted as **5 steps** as the database call was made for all airline routes received from the above API call.

Reviewer: Change "as the database call" to "because the database call".

Author: done

- **Assuming the entire execution time for the update process takes less than 500ms**, the update process thereby results in a **total of 2 steps**.

!!! note
    The above cost calculation is dependent on the above architecture and design of the Webhooks.
<br/>

### Example 4: Scheduled Job 
An airline revises its ticket prices based on the price of jet fuel. This typically happens once a day. The airline uses a scheduled task on Choreo to run this job and to update the jet fuel price once a day.

#### Scenario 
 
Airlines compute ticket prices typically once per day. The ticket prices depend on a number of factors. The price of oil is one such major factor that affects the pricing.  

The [scheduler](#scheduler) on Choreo runs once per day and fetches the oil prices for the day from the [Oil Price API](#oilPriceAPI). It then computes the jet fuel price applying the price calculation formula. The scheduler then updates the daily jet fuel price in the [Air Fare Database](#airFareDatabase).

> Having the jet fuel price, the scheduler is now able to now calculate the airfare for each route. The Scheduler retrieves the airline routes from the [Airline Routes API](#airlineRoutesAPI). Upon receiving the airline routes, it iterates over each route, computes the airfare, and updates the AirFare database.

Author: fixed.
